The Government of Karnataka had funded development of Nudi Kannada software vide its G.O ITD 234 A da vi Bangalore, dated 27.12.2001 (ಮಾತಂಇ ೨೩೪ ಅಡವಿ dated ೨೭.೧೨.೨೦೦೧). Kannada Ganaka Parishath had refused to develop any other Government of Karnataka prescribed/standard typing/input layout for Kannada like Kannada Typewriter to High Court of Karnataka. Further, KGP had colluded with GoK to popularize and make Nudi as a mandatory software to type Kannada. As a result, KGP had successfully introduced its Kannada typing keyboard layout as a standard/uniform keyboard layout for Kannada and wiped out the use of Kannada typewriter keyboard layout and all Kannada software developed by passionated developers. Further, KGP is claiming Copyright ownership of Nudi Kannada software. Also, KGP has not handed over the source code of Nudi Kannada software.

In order to enable Kannada typing enthusiasts to use their favourite typing methods by developing their choice of keyboard layout into Nudi, I made an attempt to extract/view source code of Nudi Kannada software. Now, I am sharing the details on how to extract the source code from exe file, without any financial benefit as a non-commercial, non-profit initiative in another blog post “How to access/extract/view AutoHotKey Script of the .exe file”. I also make request to those who have access to the Nudi source code to contribute to further improvement or development of Nudi Kannada software without any financial gain. The Opentype truetype fonts and the .ahk file included in the zip file is owned by the respective copyright owners. I ANBARASAN. N don't claim any rights on these works in any manner.

The Autohotkey script extracted/copied from Nudi Kannada software (Nudi 6.1.Exe) is saved and available as NudiOpen.ahk file in the NudiSource.zip file. The compiled version of NudiOpen.ahk (AutoHotKey script of Nudi Kannada software) is also include in the zip file as NudiOpen.exe (contains the same script used to compile and get Nudi 6.1.exe) for immediate use. As the Nudi Kannada software is running with a Rich Edit Wordpad like editor and the user has to minimise the editor to use it as an input/typing software/tool, the relevant AutoHotKey script code of Nudi Kannada software is separated and saved as NudiOpenDirect.ahk, its compiled version is saved as NudiOpenDirect.exe. Further, You may download the zip file from anbarasanbangalore.wordpress.com/downloads.
